OK so now that we know about pointers and references let's talk about when we want to use pointers versus
reference as function parameters.
First let's look at pass by value.
Remember that pass by value is what C++ does by default.
So you want to use pass by value parameters when the function does not modify the actual parameter and
the parameters are small and efficient to copy.
This is true of the primitive types like integers doubles characters booleans and others.
Note that the collection types like strings and vectors and others have a certain amount of overhead
involved when they're copied.
So you want to think twice before you pass those by value.
In the case of pass by reference with a regular pointer.
In this case we do want to modify the actual parameter from within the function and the parameter is
expensive to copy and then the last criteria is that it's OK for the pointer to contain a null value.
This is important because a lot of data structures rely on pointers becoming null at the end of lists
or Dand of trees.
So in those cases you really want to pass pointers and not references because references can't be null.
Let's take a look at pass by reference using a pointer to contest.
In this case this is suitable when the function does not modify the actual parameter but the actual
parameter is expensive to copy.
Also remember that pointers can contain null values and this is very useful in data structures.
In this case the pointer is allowed to contain a null value in the case of pass by reference using a
constant pointer to contest.
In this case it's very useful when the function does not modify the actual parameter and the parameter
is expensive to copy.
It's OK to have a null pointer and also the function never modifies the pointer itself.
So this is a good example of where you would pass something in and you're guaranteed that the pointer
is not moving and the data it's pointing to is not going to change.
OK so now let's look at references in the case of pass by reference using a regular reference parameter.
This is used when the function does modify the actual parameter and the parameter is expensive to copy.
Of course you can never have no values in the reference.
So if you're working with data structures that rely on null values you really should be using pointers
and not references and in the case of pass by reference using a constant reference this is useful when
the function doesn't modify the actual parameter but the parameter is expensive to copy.
And again you can't have nold references so if you need no values to go with the pointers.
OK there you go.
Those are a few guidelines.
These are just guidelines that can be used to make your program better and easier to modify and debug.
That's the end of this section.
This section can be difficult for many beginning programmers but it's important that you go through
the example slowly and then make up your own examples.
Pointers and references are two concepts that make C++ very different from other languages like Java
Python Ruby javascript and so many more.
Remember at the beginning I talked about C++ programmers being in control of memory and hardware.
You know how it works and have the foundation to move to o programming and C++.
That's coming up in the next section.
But first have a go at the section challenge which will give you a little bit more practice with pointers.